ModuleProject.py is a tool to analyse the price performance of a stock portfolio. It does so by turning stock data into a table with dates as rows and stock tickers as columns, which allows a user to track the performance of each stock. There is also analysis of the portfolio performance on any given day.
At the bottom of the table, there are performance metrics including mean price return and standard deviation of price returns for each stock as well as the portfolio as a whole. This is followed by the portfolio sharpe ratio for the entire period.
To run it, the user should open their terminal type 'python3 ModuleProjecy.py'. You will then be asked to input the tickers of the stocks you want included in your analysis. Following that, and assuming that your input is a valid US stock ticker, you will be asked for the date range for which you want closing prices. The prompt will explain what the maximum date range is. Trying to ask for a date range outside these limits will result in a prompt to input another date range until it is within prescribed limits (hazards of pulling stock data from the web for free).
The file was tested on AAPL and AMZN. The analysis showed daily volatility (1.3%) was roughly twice the mean daily price return (0.7%) for each individual stock. The volatility of the portfolio was 1.2%, a validation of diversification. While not tested, the difference between portfolio volatility and volatility of individual stocks would likely increase with each additional stock. The Sharpe ratio (assuming an annual risk-free rate of 3%) comes in at 5%. Given that the sharpe ratio is a risk-adjusted measure of the excess return of an investment over the risk-free rate, it's an interesting coincidence that the excess for this period is roughly equal to the long-term premium of the S&P 500 (which has returned an average of 8% annually over the last few decades).